hi I'm Alex I'm an ex IELTS examiner and
one of the expert teachers here at e2
language comm and in this session I'm
going to be guiding you through how to
write an academic task 1 Maps task let's
get started we're going to start by
analyzing an academic task 1 map then
you're gonna write with me so grab a pen
and paper or open a document along the
way I'm going to show you what you need
to do to score and seven and above and
I'll finish with five top examiner tips
for this type of task let's talk about
writing task 1 I'm not going to go over
this too much because if you're an e2
language subscriber you will know all
about IELTS academic task 1 if you click
on writing task 1 you'll see that we
cover all of the possible tasks that you
might get lion graphs pie charts pie
charts tables diagrams maps mix charts
and in each section we have methods
sample and plenty of practice
something I do want to mention is the
marking criteria if you've watched my
video on the criteria for writing task 2
you should know that three sections are
exactly the same for writing task 1
coherence and cohesion lexical resource
and grammatical range and accuracy
that's basically no difference in the
marking scheme here
however this first column task
achievement is different but more on
that later I mentioned our life classes
a couple of times and I want to show you
two of the tasks that we cover in our
academic tasks one class just to warm up
for today's task now this is one which
shows two maps one from 1980 on the left
and the changes in 2010 so the maps show
the changes that occurred in this town
of Newport between 1980 and 2010 notice
that these are both in the past so in
this task we had to use past perfect
past simple no present or future tense
was needed another task we've done in
our live classes is this one showing an
island in 1990 and the island now so of
course with this type of map we need to
be using different tenses past tense
present tense present perfect as well
now today's task is a little bit
different to those let's look at the
instructions first these are always the
same you should spend about 20 minutes
on this task summarise the information
by selecting and reporting the main
features and make comparisons where
relevant right at least 150 words and
here is the important instruction the
maps show Southside a shopping mall as
it is now and plans for its development
so even before we've seen the maps you
know that you're going to be using
present tense and also future tenses
let's see the maps here's the first one
Southside present day as it is now and
here is the Southside planned
development now the first thing we're
going to do is analyze these two maps
now the first thing I want to know is
what will stay the same
pause the video if you want and have a
look hopefully you found that only the
entrance the supermarket and the toilets
are gonna remain from the original sites
everything else is gonna change what
will get bigger or smaller well
obviously if we're looking at the bottom
map here the whole shopping center is
gonna grow the car park also is gonna
become bigger and the department store
will expand what will change from one
thing to another thing well inside the
shopping center the cafe is going to
become the Information Center and the
play area noodle shop and cinemas are
gonna change into these stores and
finally what will be added or removed
well these new fashion stores will
appear a new entrance to the department
store and on the top graph you'll notice
that the Golf Course in the park will
make way for the expansion and the
fitness center will also be demolished
so there's a lot of information there
which information do you need to include
well here is my first important tip a
really important tip for this type of
task you need to describe all of the
changes that happen so it's a little
different to when you're writing about a
pie chart or a line graph or a bar chart
where we choose the important features
when you're writing about a map you need
to explain or describe all of the
changes that happen so it's quite a lot
of information that you're going to
include why do we need to do this well
it's in the criteria on the left is the
task achievement column let me zoom in
to band 9 8 7 and 6 to score band aint
you need to present highlight and
illustrate the key features whereas down
and for it says does not cover all key
features so there's quite a difference
between band 8 and a band 4 and as I
said the examiners want you to describe
all of the changes that happen
so to avoid scoring band 4 make sure you
don't miss anything so that's why a very
careful analysis before you start
writing if you're on the paper-based
test you should be drawing all over the
map and if you're on the computer-based
test make a list of those changes so
what will be added or removed what will
grow what will change and what will
remain the same these are important
things structure of our academic task 1
is always the same we have an
introduction overview and key features
in the introduction we just reword the
summary in the overview we describe the
main trends stages or differences in
this case we're describing the main
differences and then we have the key
features where we present and highlight
important features usually we use data
but obviously in this case there is no
data let's do the introduction here you
just need to tell me what do the maps
show and you can do this by rewording
the summary up here or you can simply
look at the two maps on the left and
tell me what are they showing pause the
video for two minutes and write your
introduction
here's my example the two maps show the
shopping mall southside in its current
form and its proposed expansion pretty
short and simple introduction because
I've got a lot of information to include
after this next stop is the overview
people ask all the time do I need to
include an overview when I'm writing
about a map or a process in task one and
again we need to look to the criteria
for the answer to this in the task
achievement criterion to score band 7
you need to present a clear overview of
main trends differences or stages if you
have no clear overview this will get a
band 5 in task achievement so the easy
answer to that question is yes you have
to include an overview for any task one
that you do how do we do it well we're
basically answering this question what
are the major changes that will happen
pause the video for 3 minutes and have a
go on your own here's my example overall
it is clear that the plan is to extend
the center and its carpark to nearby
green space to allow for more stores and
a greater focus on fashion at the
expense of eateries and space activities
this is just one sentence but I've
covered the important changes the center
is going to get bigger it's going to eat
into the golf course and the park
there'll be more fashion stores and
there'll be nowhere to eat
your overview may be completely
different to that and that's okay
there's not just one way to write that
overview but the important thing is that
you include an overview it can be here
where I've put it after the introduction
or at the end of your task one but don't
forget it or you're gonna score bad form
in task achievement after the intro and
the overview it's time for key features
now I'm gonna write two little
paragraphs this is where we put all of
the detail about the changes I'm gonna
split this into two paragraphs in the
first one I'm gonna deal with this
question what is currently on the site
and in the other paragraph I'm gonna
explain what changes are planned pause
the video for ten minutes and have a go
by yourself here's my example this is my
first key features paragraph dealing
with the first map currently southside
mall consists of only a supermarket
department store cinemas a noodle shop
and cafe with the children's play area
and toilet facilities to the east of the
center there is a golf course that backs
on to a park while to the south there is
a fitness center and a car park opposite
the mall entrance now I'm going to deal
with the changes according to the
proposal only the supermarket toilets
and entrance will remain from the
original sites the most significant
development will be the extension of the
mall in an easterly direction where it
will overtake land previously occupied
by the golf course and park the fitness
center too will be demolished to make
way for the car park which will more
than double in size inside the mall
itself although the proposed renovation
will allow for more stores including
fashion boutiques and shoe stores the
department store will remain increasing
in size and acquiring its own entrance a
cosmetics and gift shop will be added
as well as a beauty salon there will
however be nowhere to eat as plans show
the cafe will become an information
center
here is the full response you can see
that it's over 150 words which is the
limit there is no upper limit so it
doesn't matter how many words I've
written as long as it's over 150
so now that we've analyzed and written a
full task one with maps let me share
with you five examiner tips number one
organize logically make sure that you're
using small paragraphs to separate the
introduction overview and key features
and also think about how you're going to
group your information in the key
features you may like to talk about the
first map and then the second map or you
might want to talk about inside the
shopping mall and outside the shopping
mall there's usually a way to group the
information into two paragraphs number
two include an overview as I mentioned
this is essential regardless of what
you're writing about in task one three
describe all changes this is a specific
point to make about maps don't miss
anything
now before be careful with tenses in
this task we were talking about the
present and the future but often you'll
have to write about the past or the past
and the future together so be sure to
edit carefully and number five use
complex sentences check out our video in
the notes below to see how this is done
so in addition to these five tips
another one is to have your work checked
by IELTS experts make sure that you're
working with somebody who knows the
criteria really well all of the ins and
outs and of course we can help you with
that at e2 language comm you can sign up
for free to access some of our course
materials and some of our life classes
or you can upgrade your package and get
one-on-one tutorials speaking feedback
writing feedback access to all of our
live classes and recordings and heaps
more basically everything you need to
pass your IELTS and be sure to like us
on facebook at facebook.com slash e to
IELTS so now it's your turn I'm going to
show you a similar task one with
in the present and one in the future and
I'd like you to write your task one give
yourself 20 minutes to analyze write and
edit and share your overview in the
comment section below so I can have a
look and that's it from each day I'll
see you soon on e to language calm
[Music]